Geri salzman president and everything
else Peter Kaufman a resident wise Vanna
Michelle Stevens secretary and to toe
the controller and Mary Jo Rodriguez
vice president a very important person
here Ellen Ireland inspector of
Elections and Ernest Miranda and Martin
taking chaos of square mile you Miller
LP are independent registered
accountants will now proceed to the
journal a daily General Corporation for
whole business will go through rapidly
and then we'll I'll speak briefly and
take questions if anyone needs help
raise your hand and somebody will help
you give a written voting thing Ellen
will you please report of the number of
shares represented at the meeting on
December 21st 2018 the record date fixed
by the Board of Directors for
determining the shareholders entitled to
vote today there were 1 million 380 746
shares of common stock of the
corporation outstanding I have a list of
the shareholders who were of record as
of that date certified by the
Corporations transfer agent aquinnah T
Trust Company I also have an affidavit
certifying the completion of the mailing
of the notice of this meeting the proxy
card in the 2018 annual report along
with a prepaid postage return envelope
to the shareholders proxies representing
1 million 243 845 shares of common stock
entitled to vote at this meeting have
been filed the total number of shares
in person or by proxy at this meeting is
1 million two hundred forty three
thousand eight hundred forty five which
is more than a mint of majority of
voting power of all outstanding common
stock of the corporation and the per
meeting may proceed I will attach the
affidavits to the meeting minutes of
this meeting and have a copy of the
minutes of the last annual meeting since
we have enough votes in present in a
majority for election of all directors
we announced that the directors have all
been reelected and and that we have very
common also don't we have one new
director right very comment will you
raise your hands
[Applause]
Mary was an important executive at Pixar
before they sold out to Disney so she is
satisfied what about requirements that
all directors be rich they also like the
young and good-looking but we failed
everywhere else the well announce that
all those people are now elected as
directors and we now have to approve
that as amendment to the bylaws which
which accomplishes all that the third
proposal is the election of the sixth
director that's Mary Conlon and that's
just happened and the people of the the
inspector of Elections has evaluated the
votes and everybody has a majority and I
won't go into minor differences in the
voting players Leela badly off the Audit
Committee of the board has selected
square Milner LLP as our accountant so
we need to ratify that selection and
that's happening too as the proxies or
inspectors election has tabulated the
votes and there are enough votes to do a
whole ad and all those formal matters
have now been done
Gerry is there anything else I was
supposed to do
it was very burdensome
I've got so many of you have come from
such great distances I'm going to speak
briefly on a number of topics that may
interest you and then I'm going to take
questions the it's amazing the number of
people at the meeting of the little
Daily Journal Corporation which after
all is a pretty small operation we've
got two businesses one a steadily
declining legal newspaper which now
earns about a million a year pre-tax and
shrinking and the computer software
business where we're trying to automate
courts and justice agencies and various
other governmental departments and that
is now bigger by far in terms of
prospects and customers and employees
and so forth than our shrinking
newspaper business and there is hardly
it's hardly can be imagined how hard it
is to deal with a whole bunch of
different courts in different states and
their advisers and the RFP process and
the bureaucracy this is a part of the
software business that the Giants tend
to hate they like a business we need to
stamp out an extra copy of something and
98% of the revenues go immediately into
the tills cash and there's no extra work
and that is not handling a bunch of
justice agencies Attorney General's
state courts federal courts and so forth
all over the country with different
requirements different consultants and
of course steady and aggressive
competition the nature of the our
business it's more like technical
consulting it is just epistemic stamping
out software it's a very high service
business
it's very difficult the computer science
is time-consuming and difficult but just
dealing with that much bureaucracy over
that many different fields the political
reality it's just immensely difficult so
it's a very slow grinding business and
that's the nature of the game we've
always liked it because the business
like this requires a company that's very
rich and very determined and is willing
to keep plugging and of course that's
what the Daily Journal has done how are
we doing well that's hard to judge but I
would say watching it quite closely that
it's like a pharmaceutical company with
seven waterful drugs in the pipeline we
have a lot in the pipeline that is very
very important to us Australia Canada
California we're talking big big markets
and and our main competitor is Tyler
technologies which is listed on the New
York Stock Exchange and of course
they've been out of the long time and
they're way bigger and but we are
getting some significant volume and we
have some very pleased customers and how
am I held is the little daily journal
corporation attract the government of
Australia Australia is a big place but
I've gotten to love the Australians yeah
and I think it's gonna succeed in
Australia mightily and so it takes a
long time and it's hard work and it's
also very difficult work not everybody
can do this just the mass of complexity
we would never be where we are we didn't
have Gerry salzman to do everything he's
done over the last 10 years anybody else
would have failed at this now Gerry is
80 and he and I have one kind of common
we both use canes
well I'm not in a wheelchair I use a can
and and so the idea of taking on the
whole world when the Chairman is 95 and
the Vice Chairman is 89 in the chief
executive it does all the work is 80 and
uses a cane it's a very peculiar place
that you people have come a long way to
what the hell are you thinking about
it's weird and what's happened of course
is that is we're standing a bit for some
combination of basic morality and sturdy
common sense and it's amazing how well
berkshire hathaway and the journal for
that matter have succeeded with nothing
more than a basic morality and sturdy
common sense but of course when people
talk about common sense that they mean
uncommon sense every time you hear that
somebody has a lot of common sense
it means he's got a lot in common sense
and it is much harder to have common
sense than is generally thought let me
give you an interesting example in the
investment world people enormous amount
of high IQ people trying to be more
skillful or normal imagine another
activity that gets so much attention and
weird things have happened and years ago
one of our local investment counseling
shops a very big one yes they were
looking for a way to get an advantage
over other investment counseling shops
and they reasoned as follows we've got
all these brilliant young people from
Wharton Harvard and so forth and they
worked so hard trying to understand
business and market trends and
everything else and if we just ask each
one of our most brilliant men for their
single best idea then create a formula
with this collection of the best ideas
we would outperform averages by a big
amount and that's the implausible to
them because they were ill educated
that's what happens when you go to
Harvard important and so they tried it
out and of course it failed utterly so
they tried it again and it failed
utterly they tried the third time and it
also failed and of course what they were
looking for is the equivalent of the
alchemists of centuries ago who wasn't
heard glad did the gold just buy a
little ad waiter
magic walked over to the gold that would
be a way to make money oh this
counseling shop was looking for the
equivalent of turning led into the gold
and of course it didn't work I could
have told them but they didn't ask me
nothing the interesting thing about this
situation is this is a very intelligent
group of people what's come from all
over the world you've got a lot of
bright people from China where people
tend to average out a little smarter and
and the the issue is very simple there's
no question why did that plausible idea
fail just think about it you've all been
too fancy educational institutions I bet
you there's hardly one on the audience
who knows where that thing failed that's
a pretty ridiculous demonstration I'm
making how could you not know that it's
one of the main activity of America
there's an obvious important failure
surely we can explain it you have to
have stayed awake in your freshman
college courses to answer the question
but if you ask that question as a
department of finance the leading place
the professor's wouldn't answer it right
now I'm going to leave you that question
because I want you perplexed
and I will go on to another issue but
that's when you should be able to answer
it shows how hard it is to be rational
on something very simple how hard it is
how many kind of crazy ideas people have
and they don't work you don't even know
why they don't work even though it's
perfectly obvious they've been properly
educated and by the way my definition is
being properly educated is being right
with my professor is wrong
anybody can spit back what the professor
tells you the trick is to know what he's
writing when he's wrong that's the
properly educated person and of course
they're frequently wrong particularly in
the soft sciences in fact if you look at
a modern elite institution it's fair to
say that a lot of the faculty are a
little crazy it's so left-wing now in
the humanities and it's very peculiar
that's another thing why should 90% of
the college professors in the amount of
these to be very left-wing I leave that
question for you too but it happens and
another issue of course that's happened
in the world of stock picking where all
this money and effort goes into trying
to be right trying to be rational is
that we've had a really horrible thing
happened to the investment counseling
class and that is these young exponents
have come along and they basically beat
everybody and not only that the amount
which they beat everybody is roughly the
amount of a cost of running the
operation and making the changes in
investments so the whole profession is
basically being paid for accomplishing
practically nothing this is very
peculiar this is not the case with bowel
surgery or even the criminal defense bar
of the law or something that we'll whole
profession where the chosen activity
they've selected they can
do anything now in the old days the
people in the profession always had some
of this problem and they rationalized as
follows we are saving our clients from
the insurance salesman and the
stockbroker the standard stockbroker for
it serves the active trader and they
were saving people from the life
insurance salesman and the the the
hustling stockbroker who liked their
trading and I suppose in a sense that
the investing class is still saving
those people everyone even worse fate
but it's very big profession that worked
so hard and it's so admirable and the
members of which we are delighted with
may marry into our families and they
just can't do what the is really trying
to do which is get those average results
how is that profession handling this
terrible situation as index investing
gets more and more popular and including
a lot of fancy places that's very simple
answer they're handling with denial they
have a horrible problem they can't fix
so they just fear this is non-existent
this is a very stupid way to handle a
problem now it may be good when you're
thinking about your own death what you
can't fix just deny all the way to the
end but but in all the practical fields
of life this problem thoroughly
understood is half solved or better cope
with so it's it's wrong to have all
these people in just a state of denial
doing what they've always did year after
year and hoping the world will keep
paying them for it even though none man
context is virtually certain to do
better it's a very serious problem and
think of how much New York say needs a
flow of money from finance
what happened manager
more trading spreads and so on and so
it's a weird situation and of course
it's it's unpleasant big investment
counseling shops are some of them
shrinking and some go out of business
and the value investors of course so
many of I know because we came from that
tradition the value investors were
honorable are quitting boom boom boom
and what worked for them for years
stopped working they their honorable
people they just quit and they're also
rich so it makes it easy but those who
aren't rich or have a hell of a problem
and it costs about $50,000 to send that
happen to send your kid to preschool not
deductible and and that's just the start
of an endless procession of years of
past expense so if your game is money
management you have a serious problem
and I don't have any solution for this
problem I do think that index investing
if everybody does it won't work but for
another considerable period index
investing is going to work better than
active stock picking where you trying to
know a lot now the place like Berkshire
Hathaway or even the Daily Journal we've
done better than average and now there's
a question why has that happened why has
that happen and the answer is pretty
simple
we tried to do less we never had the
illusion we could just hire a bunch of
bright young people and they would know
more than anybody about canned soup and
aerospace utilities and so on and so on
and so on we never had that dream we
never thought we could get really useful
information on all subjects like jen
kramer pretends it tends to have
and we always realized we worked very
hard we can find a few things where we
were right and the few things were
enough and that was a reasonable
expectation that is a very different way
to approach the process and if you would
asked Warren Buffett the same thing that
this investment counseling did give me
your best idea this year and you just
follow Warren's best idea you would find
it work beautifully but he was trying to
know the hole he would give you one or
two his stocks he had let more limited
ambitions I had a grandfather was very
useful to me my mother's grandfather and
he was a pioneer he came out with no
money but youth and health and took it
away from the Indians he fought as a
black boy he was a captain Blackhawk
Wars and he he stayed there and he
bought cheap land and he was aggressive
and intelligent and so forth and
eventually he was the richest man in the
town on the bank huge family very happy
life and he had the attitude having come
out to Iowa when the land was not much
more than a dollar an acre
and having stayed there until that black
topsoil created the modern rich
civilization and some of the best land
in the world
his attitude was the favored life like
his when you're located in the right
place he just got a few opportunities if
you lived to be about 90 and the trick
in coming out well was that were your
fair share that came along when they did
and he told that story over and over
again to the grandchildren around him
all summer and my mother who had no
interest in money remembered the story
and told it to me but I'm not my
mother's natural imitator and I knew
grandpa was right and so I always knew
from the very first
a little boy that the opportunities that
were important that we're gonna come to
me were few and that the trick was to
prepare myself for seizing the few that
came this is not the attitude that they
have at a big investment counseling
thing they think if they study a million
things they can know a million things
and and of course the result isn't
almost nobody can outperform an index
where as I said here was my daily
journal stock my Berkshire Hathaway
stock my holdings of Lee Lewis Asian
fund my Costco stock and of course
performing everybody 95 years old a
friend may never have a transaction
right they're wrong and that's why it's
worked for me and not for them and the
question is you want to be more like me
or more like them the idea of
diversification makes sense to a point
if you don't know what you're doing you
want the standard result and not be
embarrassed well of course you've been
widely diverse somebody nobody's
entitled a lot of money for recognizing
that because it's a truism it's like
knowing that two in two equals four and
but the investment professionals think
they're helping you by arranging a dirt
Dirk diversification maybe it could
diversify a portfolio and or a computer
for that matter and but the whole trick
of the game is to have a few times when
you know that something is better than
average and invest only where you have
that extra knowledge and then if you get
a few opportunities that's enough carry
on three securities and JP Morgan Chase
owns a hundred you know it's what's
wrong with only a few securities well no
he says he lived
going town and you owned stock and three
of the best enterprises in the town
isn't that diversified enough the answer
is of course it is they're all wonderful
places and that fortunes formula which
got so famous which is a formula to tell
people how much to bet on each
transaction if you had an edge and of
course the bigger your edge the more
close the transaction was to a certain
winner
the more you should bad and of course
there's mathematics behind it but of
course it's true it's perfectly possible
to buy by only one thing because the
opportunity is so great in such a change
or only two or three so the whole idea
diversification when you're looking for
excellence is totally ridiculous it
doesn't work it gives you an impossible
task what fun is it to do an impossible
task over and over again I find it agony
I just who would want to do it and and I
don't see the way my father had a client
he was a client whose husband and the
guy my father sold so company this was
one of the richest people in town I'm in
a little depression and what she had was
a little soap company and a best mansion
and Omaha the best neighborhood they
sold the soap company she had a mansion
him the best neighborhood and $300,000
but $300,000 in 1930-something was an
incredible amount of money a little
hamburger was an echo a big hamburger
was a diamond the all-you-can-eat cafe
would feed you all you this day life or
two bits a day I mean 300 thousand well
she didn't hire investment counselors
you knew it wonderful old woman and she
just took that and she divided into five
chunks and she bought five stocks I
remember three of them because I probate
in her estate and it was almost General
Electric's one was now one was DuPont
got the other two then she never changed
those stocks she never paid any advisor
she never did anything and she bought
some municipal bonds he never spent her
income and she bought some isso bonds
from time to time with Leigh Ann she
died in the 50s she had a half dollars
no costs no expenses I said how did you
decide to do that and well she said I
thought electricity and chemistry were
they coming things he just chunked it
all in and sat on her ass I always liked
that little one my kind of a girl and
but it's rare you know but if you stop
to think about a thing of all the
expense and palabra she didn't have to
listen to and all the trouble she
avoided zero costs and of course but
people don't realize because they're so
mathematically illiterate is if you make
five percent and pay too little bit to
your advisors you're not losing 40
percent a year future you're losing 90
percent because over a long period of
time that little difference this
advantage to you it's important for
somebody who's a long-term holder not to
be paying a big annual performance and
of course there are a few big-time
advisors now are using indexation very
heavily and of course they're prospering
mightily and of course every time they
get somebody it's just agony for the
rest of the investment counseling
business and it's a very serious problem
and I think these people were used to
winning is the old time value investors
who are now just quitting the profession
that's a very understandable thing to do
I regarded as more noble and staying in
well you know playing along with the
denial
it's an interesting problem I can see
I'm trying not trying to make your
morning I'm just trying to describe
things the way they are and but this
business
why does Lee Lewis succeed so mildly
well partly he's sort of a Chinese
Warren Buffett that really helps and and
partly he's fishing in China not in this
over searched over popul is highly
competitive American market and there's
still pockets of ignorance and lassitude
in China that gave him so unusual
opportunities at first rule and fishing
has always been fish where the fish are
and the second rule of fishing has
always been don't forget rule number one
and was good and the rest of us are like
cod fishermen are trying to catch Cod
where the fishermen fished out it
doesn't matter how much you work when
there's that much competition every
little idea I see in the world some are
going after ice at once an investment
committee at the University of Michigan
and then came one of their successful
investors located in London and what had
this investor done in London he decided
to invest in sub-saharan Africa and the
only marginal securities were a few
banks that traded in the Pink Sheets so
he would buy very tiny quantities of
these banks and every time some poor
person got tired of having the money in
the mattress and put it in a bank
he did a little better and of course you
made a lot of money he was nobody else
was missing
little tiny banks in Africa but the net
was soon filled what the hell do you do
for encore after you put your class play
a bunch of little tiny banks in
sub-saharan Africa the niche gets failed
quickly okay and how many wonderful
niches those are gonna be when some guy
in London this tiny little bank stocks
in Africa
it's hard and and then if you take the
modern world where people are trying to
teach you how to come in and trade
actively in stocks
well I regard that is roughly equivalent
to try and do see you but you'll start
off on heroin it is really stupid and
when you're already rich to make your
money by encouraging people to get rich
by trading and then there are people on
the TV another wonderful place and they
say I have this book it will teach you
how to make 300 percent a year and all
you have to do is pay for shipping and I
will mail it to you how likely is a
person who had suddenly found a way to
make 300 percent a year we trying to
sell books on the Internet to you it's
ridiculous and yet I've described modern
commerce and the people who do this all
day
think they're useful citizens the
advertising agents invent the lingo
insurance they say well they say the two
people who shifted from guy go to the
glutes insurance company say four
hundred dollars each but they don't tell
you is there only two such people the
whole United States and they were both
nuts but they mislead you on purpose
and I get tired of it I don't think it's
right that we deliberately mislead
people as much as we do let me tell you
another story that I think it's an
interesting one of the modern life but
this goes back to a different time and
as man has this wonderful horse it's
just a marvelous horse got an easy gait
and good-looking and everything it just
works wonderfully but also occasionally
just gets so he's dangerous and vicious
and causes enormous damage in trouble
and breaks arms and legs for this writer
and so on
and he goes to the bet and say what can
I do about this horse that says that's a
very easy problem and I'm glad to help
you what should I do
and the man says the next time your
horse is behaving well so it well think
of how I immoral that is and haven't I
just described what private equity has
to do when private equity has to sell
something that's really troublesome they
hire an investment banker and what does
the investment banker do he makes a
projection you can't I have never seen
such expertise and my whole life I just
created in making projections you know
that's not banking there is no business
so lousy it can't get a wonderful
projection and but is that a great way
to make a living to have phony
projections and use it to make money out
of people you look right into the eyes
of I would say no and by and large
Warren I we never tried to make money
out of the dumb se out of stupidity of
our dumb buyers we tried to make money
by buying and if we were selling
horseshit we didn't want to pretend it
was a cure for arthritis and I think
it's better to go through life our way
instead of theirs and III I think it's
always been this way there's always been
chicane rethinking the carnival's ugly
the carny operator think how much
trickery there is a carny operation and
people just seek out the weaknesses of
their fellow man and take advantage and
you have to get wise enough so you you
avoid them all you can't avoid them if
they're in your family I have no
solution to that one
but but where you have a fair choice
there just so many people it should be
avoided my father had this best friend
and client and he also had this other
client who was a big blowhard and he was
always working for the big blowhard and
he wasn't ever working for his wonderful
clown whom I admired and I said why do
you do this and he said Charlie you
idiot he says the big board is an
endless source of legal troubles he's
all oh he's in trouble
overreaching and misbehaving and so
forth grab my baton treats everybody
right the employees the customers
everything he gets involved with some
psychotic he walks over there and makes
it a graceful exit immediately it's a
man like that doesn't need a lawyer and
my father was trying to teach me
something and it really worked
I spent my whole life trying to be like
grant my Faden and I want to tell you
that works
it really works Peter Kaufman is always
telling me if the crooks only knew how
much money you could make me being
honest differently it's Warren has a
wonderful saying I like is you take the
high road that's never crowded and it's
work take the daily journal corporation
we made quite a few millions of dollars
out of the foreclosure boom because we
published legal notices and we dominated
the publication of foreclosure notices
in the worst real estate depression in
the history of modern times and we could
have raised our prices at the time and
made more tens of millions of dollars
but we didn't do it you know when your
fellow citizens are losing their damn
houses in the worst recession Charlie
Munger billionaire raises prices but
look wowsie on the front page of the
paper and for people around the office
too it should you do it and the answer
is no of course not
but if you want your Warren always said
it's probably always a mistake to marry
for money and it's
really stupid if you're already rich and
it's really stupid when you're already
rich to get a reputation of being total
no-good nigga
Rick garran always loved the story about
the guy who all his life he died now is
the time in the funeral ceremony when
somebody says something nice about the
deceased and nobody came forward and
nobody came forward nobody came forward
finally one guy stood up he said well he
said his brother was worse well you
could laugh but there are people like
that when Harry Cohn died here the same
was a everybody went to the funeral to
make sure he was dead and and so it's
there are a few simple truths that
really work and and when it gets to this
difficult business the daily journal is
in I would say it is a real pleasure to
be serving these courts and agencies
they need the automation other people
are trying to take advantage of ways
that we aren't and we're struggling
against the odds a little tiny company
and and we're taking a lot of territory
that's slow going but the prospects are
are good and of course the nice thing
about ring riches it doesn't matter if
it's a little slow and you know how do
we get rich
well we remember grandpa hangin one of
the few opportunities came along we
reached out the seized it think of how
your life works in my life to give
another example the mongers would have
twice the assets they now have if I
hadn't made one mistake of omission back
in the 1970s and really stupid and I got
I blue
they would have doubled my brother net
worth that is a normal life you get one
or two how things work out we all know
people are out married that I mean I
suppose there's so much better think
what a good decision that was for them
way more important than the money and I
love them did it when they were young
just they stumbled into it no you don't
have to stumble into it you can be very
careful a lot of people are wearing
signs Danger Danger do not touch and
people just charge right ahead that's a
mistake what you can laugh but it's
still a horrible mistake and it's been
fun for the people on this board to know
one another work on these oddball things
and handle life's vicissitudes of course
it's very peculiar that we're so old
I mean imagine a place where gang woke
us is one of the young men guys wife is
still in golf champion but that's them
because she's good when she's old I mean
yeah it's it's an amazing group that's
the example to imagine being as old as
impaired as I am and having a pretty
good time how does that happen well you
that is another strange to a couple of
other stories to could you like stories
here's an apocryphal story that has very
instructive a young man comes to visit
Mozart
he says Mozart nice is I want to write
symphonies and Moses how old are you in
the Man 723 Mozart says you're too young
to write symphonies he said the Mozart
he says you were reading somebody's when
you were ten years old yes but I wasn't
asking other people how to do it
now there's another mozart story here's
the greatest musical tell him maybe that
ever lived and what was his life like it
was bitterly unhappy and he died young
that's the life of Moser
what the hell didn't what's our do to
screw it up make himself what he did to
things that are guaranteed to create a
lot of misery he overspent his income
scrupulously that's number one that is
really stupid and that other thing was
youthful jealousies and resentments if
you'll spend or spend your income and be
full of jealousy and resentments you can
have a lousy unhappy life and die young
all you've got to do is learn from
Mozart you can also learn from that
young man asking Mozart how to write
symphony they drove the matter is that
not everybody can learn everything some
people are way the hell better and of
course no matter hard you try there
always some guy that use more some guy
or gal and the myalgias so what do it
does any of us need to be the very top
of the whole world it's ridiculous and
another thing that people do like their
guard is amazing is they build these
enormous mausoleums I think they figure
they want people to walk by that
mausoleum and say gosh I wish I were in
there
anyway you can see we've had some fun as
we go along and it works so well but if
you actually figure out how many
decisions were made in the history of
the daily journal Corporation or the
history of Mercer Hathaway
it wasn't very many per year that were
meaningful it's a game of being there
all the time and recognizing the rare
opportunity when it comes and
recognizing the normal human allotment
is to not have very many now it's a very
confident bunch of people who sell
securities who act as though they've got
an endless supply of wonderful
opportunities well those people are the
equivalent of the race dragged out there
not even respectable it's not a good way
to live your life to pretend to know a
lot of stuff you don't know one pretend
astonishing and my advice to you is
avoid those people but not if you're
running a stock brokerage firm you need
them but it's not the right way to make
money and controlling the costs of
living simply and that was the secret
how much money Warren and I had tiny
little bits of money we always under
spend our incomes and we invested in me
well you know if you end up rich it's
not very complicated and now there is a
part of life which is how do you
scramble out of your mistakes without
them costing too much and we've done
some of that to look at Berkshire
Hathaway think of its founding
businesses a doom department store Doom
New England textile company Doom trading
stamp company out of that came birch or
Hathaway now we
handle bows losing hands pretty well
when we bought into the Murray chamber
but of course that's came from changing
our ways and getting into the better
businesses and it isn't that we were so
good at doing things that were difficult
we were avoiding things that were
difficult things that are easy by the
way when we bought the daily journal
what was easy what we're doing now in
this software business is difficult but
due to the accident of these good
associations on the back of these old
colleagues who lived so long we're doing
pretty well on the new business it has
potential and it's fun to do and and how
many declining newspapers have hundreds
of millions marketable securities lying
around and a new business with some
promise we're like the last of the
Mohicans
oh he's giving it to somebody important
well I'll take some questions now I
we need some system of order I have a
question yeah somebody want to point to
these people all right go ahead
all right good morning me tomorrow happy
but I'm tired to you and we wish you a
great held until work sure split shares
my name is Anne Lee and I'm from Hanoi
Vietnam in the book Outsiders we lamp
toward I least eight CEOs that achieve
superlative for comments to the sp500
and their peers
so other than meter Buffett and me to
Murphy did book sure you invest in all
other six companies of the other CEOs
and if not why I didn't get that
so I think I just didn't understand the
question
so machinist we lambtron Diocles HCL's
and along with them is eight companies
and two of them about you either way and
capital cities so I want to ask that
among the other six companies did book
sure you invest in them at one time and
if you don't need best I mean if you
didn't invest in one of the after six
company
what has the reason for that well I
can't answer that question I don't know
the other six companies and but I would
say generally speaking as things have
gotten tougher we've been better sitting
on our asses what we have then we have
in buying new ones it's been hard to buy
new ones we haven't bought a whole
company of any size since we bought the
truckstop operator so if you're having
trouble with the present time with
anything join the club
good morning
yeah please a comment on proposed
legislation in Washington to restrict or
tax share buybacks to tax what
Rick tells a story about an old Irishman
they used to steal from the church and
drunk all the time
he's dying the precess if it renounce
the double and he said I can't do that
because in my condition I shouldn't
defend anybody and and I don't think I
should you get me started on politicians
I may be in politic so let's go to
another subject hi mr. Munger thank you
for taking our questions today my name
is Paul Smith from Los Altos my question
is about commercial banks many of us
here I suspect have tailgated you and
mr. Buffett into some wonderful banking
investments thank you for that my
question is about smaller banks if you
look at banks greater with assets
greater dependability us and go up and
sort of stop at the super regional level
there's about 250 of those banks and my
question is is that an ingrained that
you would think applying the principles
of value investing that is likely to
maybe yield one or two you know great
businesses at a yes oh I had a second
question
iris the second part to that
the next question whatever it is right
here over here Charlie
so you and warm adapt advocated for
decades the CEO should tell shareholders
everything they need to know to value a
business from visiting and calling
courthouses around the country I've
personally seen the success that you've
had you know ordered Khan
excuse me contracts against larger
contracts against larger competitors for
jti however your opaqueness regarding
contracts that have been awarded but not
completed leaves a wide range that an
estimated value could fall for so if a
shareholders unwilling to cold-call
fifty courts around the country to find
these contracts that haven't been
accepted yet could you please provide a
little bit of detail for us shareholders
as far as the willingness for courts to
accept these have you have you had any
contracts that haven't been accepted
after you put in the work and it's very
complicated I don't report to understand
each one because I've trusted Gerry and
the people who are doing it but
generally speaking I can see that the
trend is favorable but more than that
I can only say you would be horrified if
you watched it up close how difficult it
is it's difficult but in spite of its
difficulties we're doing pretty well but
we haven't got any magic wand if you
read all the reports if I read all the
reports in great detail and spend all my
ever trying to understand it I wouldn't
understand it very well so I think your
chances are very poor
thank you yeah
Charlie yeah one of my favorite lines
from you is you want to hire the guy
with the IQ of 130 that thinks it's 120
and the guy with an IQ of 150 who thinks
it's 170 will just kill you how do you
how do you assess someone when making a
hiring decision of course I want the guy
who's who understands the guy who
doesn't on the other hand I learned
something terribly important in life I
learned that for Howard Ullman so you
know what he used to say never
underestimate the man of what were
estimates himself these weird guys who
overestimate themselves occasionally
knock it right out of the park is a very
unhappy part of modern life but I've
learned to adjust to it I have no
alternative it happens all the time
but I don't want my personal life to be
a bunch of guys who are living in a
state of delusion occasionally win big
III want the prudent person I Charlie
I'm Philip from the Philippines early
part of your talk you mentioned about
Lulu what did you see in him versus
other investors in China because in his
biography it looks like he's more fun
outsider and how similar or different he
is versus Ted comes or Ted Weschler
and can you comment like because last
year gave an interview with him in China
or is there any reason why you gave that
interview last year well I did it
because he asked me and I sometimes do
that I'm foolish that way the answer is
Lily was normal he's the Chinese weren't
Buffett he's very talented
and of course I've enjoyed that way 95
years I've given Munger money to some
outsider to run once in 95 years
absolutely of course out of the park
it's very remarkable it's also pretty
picky and of course once I've got Li Lu
if I marry him well so am I gonna pick
and by the way that's a good way to make
decisions that's what we do if we've got
one thing we can do more of
we're not understand anything that's not
better than that that simplifies life a
great deal because there aren't that
many people better than Lido so I just
sit it's amazing how intelligent is to
spend some time just sitting a lot of
people are way too active good morning
mr. Munger you said in the past that you
expect the u.s. to adopt a single-payer
health care system or Medicare for all
the next time that Democrats control all
three branches of government what will
this mean for health insurers hospitals
and medical device companies
it'll still be a big business but it
will be a helluva mess the existing
system is so over expensive and over
complicated and has so much unnecessary
cost so much unnecessary over tear of
the dying so much over treatment don't
be a best left alone so much unnecessary
expense yeah the other hand it's the
best system there is in the world in
terms of the quality at the top so it's
a very complicated subject but it's a
hell of a mess I find it a new
moralizing to see in Singapore they
spend 20% of what we spend in America on
medical care and their system is way
better and what they're doing is just
the most elemental common sense but of
course it was created by one Chinese guy
it was in control of course it's more
intelligent then our outcome of our
political process that Sambora system
was created by the Lee Kuan Yew of
course it works better but to have it
cost 20% and work better you know
advanced plays like Sam horse there's a
lot to be demoralized about in terms of
the potential of our medical care system
and of course this is what our
politicians are good to fixing systems
like that so if you don't like it now I
confidently predict you won't like it
later either still on your left charlie
this my name is JD I'm from Phoenix
Charlie I read a lot of the stoic
philosophers last year Epictetus Seneca
Marley what you would there's a lot to
be stoic about agreed and as I gleaned
lessons from them there was one name
that kept coming to mind and that is
Munger Munger Munger so I wonder can you
talk about baby link Marcus Aurelius all
right
[Laughter]
can you talk to me about the influence
that the Stoics had on you and a lawyer
and advice from them a lot a lot
including epictetus who started as a
slave no I like those old Stoics
and part of them of the secret of a long
life that's worked as well as mine is
not to expect too much of you in nature
a lot of problems and they have your
life full of seething resentments and
hatreds it's counterproductive you're
punishing yourself and not fixing the
world can you think of anything much
more stupid than trying to fix the world
in a way that ruins yourself and doesn't
fix the world it's pretty still but I
just don't do it I I have a role for
politicians it's it's a stoic rule and
and like what climate to use is the sort
of rule so well for me I always reflect
never so bad you don't live to want them
back when I was young the California
Legislature was full small-time
insurance brokers and lawyers looking
for an unfair advantage they're being
interred here and came restaurants and
prop with prostitutes and bars by
racetracks and liquor distributors and
so on and so on
fade in fade out we have a different
kind of a legislature now I just want
all those old crooks and lobbyists
prostitutes back
are you laughs but you young people
you're gonna live to wish we could have
Nancy Pelosi and Donald Trump we're
immortal good morning mr. Munger rajab
rambha from the San Francisco Bay Area
we all know you're an avid reader could
you share a reading recommendation for
us it's potentially a new one that may
be fundamentally change your viewpoint
on something but I do find that they're
amusing anecdotes and so forth that I
occasionally read them like but I like
the old anecdotes pretty well too it's
so obvious some of these pithy stories
the storytelling really works to get
Messi's around one of the interesting
things is look at our modern politicians
and then think about Abraham Lincoln who
in our modern politician reminds you of
Abraham Lincoln in either party Lincoln
at one time was hired by some guy whose
partner had died leaving Brangelina no
money and wife and three children and he
owed some money to his surviving partner
partner came to Lincoln and said I want
you to collect this money and Lincoln
said to this guy he said well he says
you look like an enterprising fellow who
can get that much money back pretty
easily through a little effort and if
you want to bring a little money out of
this for two or three shows you'll have
to get a different kind of lawyer does
that remind you of any of our modern
politicians that was Abraham Lincoln
what a story no wonder he's remembered
and you know who deserves the credit for
Abraham Lincoln who never gets it this
stepmother
Abraham Lincoln was the child of two
illiterate but the stepmother who is
father just mired in desperation to help
raise the children she took a shine to
Lincoln and so I was bookish and she
helped him all the way along I am going
to donate a picture of that stepmother
eventually to a particular place because
I'm I admire what that stepmother
accomplished in life
imagine being responsible more than any
other person Lincoln next charlie
my name is Jung Lee from New York and
thank you so much and I wanna say first
a happy Valentine's Day thank you for
sharing your wisdom and secret to
success for to life for business for
investment that is tremendous value for
myself and many of our attendees here my
question is about intellectual property
because they are lawyer by training
given the complicated landscape in this
field is there a better way to share
international property across relations
especially in the case of Huawei II is
the bitter fight are the better legal
framework to handle intellectual
properties thank you well you know I
don't know that much about the world of
intellectual property I've made my way
in insurance furniture stores papers so
other people are good at the lecture and
a good intellectual property I'm go to
them waiting subjects I'm not good at
and one of them is intellectual property
I'm not surprised that the Chinese are
stealing a little property we Americans
did it all the time we stole Dickens
work we didn't copy
just reprinted his copyrighted stuff we
stole only technology from the English
textile manufacturers people have been
pretty aggressive about wanting to know
other people's ideas this is an old
problem I do think that allowing
intellectual property to have these
profits is desirable but the exact
complexities I don't so much time
thinking about hi Charlie and thank you
for being here today and sharing your
knowledge with us in last year's daily
journal meeting you talked about one of
the five aces of a money manager was a
long runway I'm I'm young and have at
least hopefully a 40 year runway ahead
of me or your legs
I passed my physical with flying colors
so thanks a lot
I'd like to compound my money at the
highest rate and then give most of it
away at the end which money managers
would you recommend besides you and
Warren thank you well I just said I've
only hired one myself in the lifetime I
don't think that makes me an expert
although I must say that wasn't did work
out rather well no I can't help you
everybody would like to have somebody
manager that would make him rich think
of what it does of course we all would
want that I would like to be able to
turn lead into gold but it's hard it's
very hard if you're finding it difficult
that just shows you understand it next
Charlie and Peter Peter Kaufman I just
actually I don't have a question I just
want to thank you both for putting
together Pete
poor Charlie's Almanac it has been an
incredibly foundational book in my life
and has really helped inflect my
thinking on many different things so
thank you both very much for your work
on that
[Applause]
well it really was Peter Kaufman's idea
he did the whole damn thing and he paid
for it himself being a rich and
eccentric man and and I just wish that
one change in Peter Coe my Peter Kaufman
has made me adored in India and China I
wish the hell he can do more for me at
Los Angeles the Chinese version of her
Charlie's alma has been pirated
enormously unchecked totally pirated but
the legal sales are what three hundred
forty thousand or something
Peter's made me very popular in China
but he does nothing for me in Los
Angeles hi Charlie
question for you over here you've
paraphrased you've paraphrased Ben
Graham and saying that good ideas are
wonderful but you can suffer terribly if
you overdo them yes how do you balance
that against the risk that you
potentially forego an opportunity
altogether or are late to enter into an
opportunity for fear of not
materializing problem is thoroughly
understood as half solved the minute you
point out there's a big tension between
good ideas yet over done so much they're
dangerous and good ideas that still have
a lot of run run way ahead once you have
that construct in your head and start
classifying opportunities into one
category the other you've got the
problem I have solved you don't need me
you've already figured it out you've got
to be aware of both potentialities and
the tensions
hi charlie yeah my name is Jason here
from Toronto Canada and in your letter
on berkshires past and future you know
you wrote about the principles that have
made it for extra successful over the
years my question is why is it that
Berkshires organizational principles as
a holding company have not been copied
more by others given its incredible
success and track record thank you
well it's a good question I think the
main reason is it looks impossible if
you were in Procter & Gamble but its
culture and its bureaucracy
and you said how can I make Procter &
Gamble more like Berkshire Hathaway it
would go me too hard well that's just
too hard
there's too much momentum but you raised
by your question a very interesting
thing that deserves more attention when
it gets one of the reasons that
Berkshire has been so successful is
practically nobody at headquarters
we have almost no corporate bureaucracy
you know a few internal auditors who go
out from the air and check this or that
but basically we have no bureaucracy
having no bureaucracy is a huge
advantage the people who are running it
are sensible people think how poorly all
of us have behaved in big bureaucracy
even though we have a lot of talent
because we couldn't change anything so
bureaucracy has a standard bunch of
evils on a standard a bunch of stupid
wastes and so forth and avoiding it is
hugely important and of course this
tendency of successful places
particularly successful government ways
is to have more and more bureaucracy and
of course it's terribly
counterproductive and of course the
bureaucracy the individual bureaucrats
they're benefiting from more assistance
more meetings more there's more that so
what looks like poisoned us from the
outside because the decisions are so
terrible
looks wonderful for them it's
opportunity and I've just described that
a great tragedy of modern life modern
great success bureaucracy and successful
bureaucracy means well you're in
stupidity how could it be otherwise
that's the big tension of modern life
and some of these places that go into a
stupid bureaucracy and fire a third of
the people of another place works better
they're doing the Lord's work but you
wouldn't think so if you were working
there and but there's a lot of there's a
horror and waste in bureaucracy and it's
inevitable it's as natural as old age
and death that cheerful go on to the
next one
hi Charlie
my name is Frank at this moment right
now I'm researching what makes
partnerships successful such as you and
Warren and in particular I'm researching
personality psychology I was wondering
what your thoughts are on that if you
have any thank you to talented people
working well together of course that
works better
good morning my name is Matthew Peterson
Matthew Peterson from Manhattan Beach
mr. Munger in the past you've praised
the significance of cultures at firms
like Glen arcuate and Costco what view
what are your views on the culture at
Daily Journal and in particular Journal
technologies and similar to your
Berkshire 50 or essay can you share a
multi-decade vision for general
technologies Thank You general
technologies came into be I guess had a
weak moment in Warren Garin talked me
into it
and it worked because Jerry took a hold
of it and word miracles so I don't know
so much credit
it's Garon I just clap clapping hello
mr. monk I'm on your right you speak
about the importance of fishing in
waters with ample fish if you were
starting out today what you know see
would you be fishing in other than in
China of course
well other than China but if there's one
good place in the world that's more than
my share there are others I'm sure but
it's hard for me to believe that they
get better for the mongers in China I
can't help you I thought my problem
you'll have to saw yours by the way the
water is fine in China
and some very smart people are waiting
in and in due course I think more will
wait in the great companies of China are
cheaper than the great companies in the
United States
hi mr. Munger my friend Mikkel
and I were from Barcelona and I have a
question for you regarding long-term
investment and compound interest so I
try to remember if it was your Einstein
that said that compound interest was the
strongest force on earth and in the last
few years with very low interest rates
out there it's been difficult to find
opportunities for having a long term in
compound interest based strategy so
beyond investing in Berkshire body
investing or index funding where would
you invite us to find opportunities for
long term investment where compound
interest is really that horse well my
advice for a seeker of compound interest
that works ideally is to reduce your
expectations because I think it's going
to be tougher for a while and it helps
to have realistic expectations makes you
less crazy and I think that you know
they say that common stocks probably
aftermath of the Great Depression which
was Thor's the english-speaking world in
hundreds of years to the present time
maybe an index is produced ten percent
that's pre inflation after inflation and
maybe seven percent or something and
they're seen seven in ten in terms of
those consequences are just hugely
dramatic over that long period of time
and if that's seven in real terms that
may achieve starting at a perfect period
through the greatest boom in history
starting now it could well be three
percent or two percent in real terms
it's not unthinkable you'd have 5%
returns and three percent inflation or
some gas becomes like that and so the
ideal way to cope with that is to say if
it handles if that happens I can have a
happy life because why should you be
happy in spite of the back
that the civilization wasn't quite as
easy as it was right generation and now
beyond that when it gets more difficult
how should you do it well the answer is
me because it's gonna be very difficult
you should work at it oh it gets you a
6% for a lifetime of work instead of
five you should be cheerful about it you
want to hit it out of the park easily
you should talk to Jim Cramer hi there
Alex Rubalcaba over on the left here hi
building on the question about the
corporate culture at Daily Journal
corporation it's great to see a new
board member and I was wondering if we
could ask the other board members about
the long term succession plan for the
board another speaker
[Applause]
hi I'm curious has the berkshire
hathaway equity portfolio outperformed
the S&P over the last five or ten years
and if it is not
why wouldn't a Berkshire just invest in
the SP for its equity portfolio hi I
think Warren after all a mere boy of 89
things that Mercer can do a little
better than the S&P
from this point I don't think many
people can but you may be right about
himself and the team he has in place it
won't be by huge margins that I
confidently predict I'm mr. Munger
Andrew Pogue over here on your right
just a question on how you think about
downside protection and how do you know
when to exit an investment I Berkshire I
bought in 1966
oh I've been a good picker but other
people know more about exiting I'm
trying never to have to exit so you're
you're talking I think there is a
working styles of investments that
worked well with constant ex exits just
hasn't haven't have been my forte so I'm
no good at exits I don't like even
looking for exits I'm looking for holes
think of the pleasure I've got from
watching Costco March ahead such an
utter meritocracy and it does so well
why would I trade that experience for a
series of transactions and maybe a
little first I'd be less rich not more
after Texas the second place it's a much
less satisfactory life than rooting for
people I like and admire so I say fine
Costco's not good exits good morning
charlie
you mentioned in an interview with CNBC
in May 2008 een Bookshare is a little
bit too restrained on buying more Apple
stock to use the opelu so do you have
any new comments on Berkshire is what
picture is too restrained on buying more
Apple stock its owns document
hypo hypo Apple OS oh yeah this new
Peluso and do you have any more comments
new comments on Apple no I don't think
the world would be improved by more
comments for me on Apple you have a very
patient man and I know a lot but I don't
know everything
I like Apple but I don't feel I'm the
expert
good morning mr. Munger my name is JC I
am 11 years old and I come from China my
question is also welcome my question is
also about Apple so last year last year
you said that you wish you had more of
Apple stock but now it's price has
declined by a lot so what is your
opinion about its moat or the
competitive advantage why do you think
it has declined thank you very much I
know enough about it so I admire the
place but I don't know enough to have
any part of our secret is that we don't
attempt to know a lot of things we have
a I have a pile on my desk it solves
most of my problems it's called the to
hard pile and I just keep shifting
things to the to hard pile every once
awhile easy decision comes along and I
make it that's my system everything was
the two hard files which I make probably
hi Charlie Sam from Chicago on your left
when you're assessing the quality of a
business do you place more emphasis on
quantitative metrics such as return on
invested capital or qualitative ideas
like brand strength or quality of
management well we pay attention to
qualitative metrics and we also pay
attention
two other factors generally we like to
pay attention to whatever is important
in the particular situation and that
varies from situation to situation we're
just trying to have that uncommon sense
I'm talking about and part of our
uncommon sense is just to refer a lot of
stuff to the too hard pile the simple
life is the obvious right answer but
most of America ends up like Mozart in
debt and overspending how did you
maintain the discipline to live the
simple life in the face of all these
other temptations I was born this way
good morning mr. Munger my name is on
the left my name is Benjamin Jovic and
I'm an engineer at BYD and I was
interested to hear your perspective on
the current state of infrastructure in
the US and just some areas of growth
that you might see in the future for
infrastructure thank you a big deal
practically everybody in China where me
the idea is so active by the way the
Daily Journal on some byd but be YDE is
going to be huge and electric vehicles
they're already huge and they're going
to be much more huge and then they're
going to be huge in monorails which is
also a business as time has come and
they're also huge in these lithium
batteries and losing batteries re
improved and materially improved and the
place is full of fanatics and by the way
they're being supplier to Apple and
Huawei and and they're very satisfactory
some wires all those things so I am
terribly impressed with you IDs been on
one of the real pleasures of my life to
watch on who's the eighth son of a
peasant and older brother recognizing a
genius had been
family he just gave up everything in
life to nurture that brother genius now
that's Confucianism and by the way
Confucianism will do a lot better for
civilization the important foundation
did you know Confucianism was strong
family ethos like that is a really
constructive thing and confusion as a
partly created BYD
that older brother Huang Shan Fu's was a
hero and and of course what one shampoo
is done is a miracle
and of course that was a venture capital
type investment we bought marketable
securities not birch sure but but and
it's been a wonderful investment and
it's been a very admirable company and I
like being part of something that's
inventing better lithium lithium
batteries and better mount rails and so
on and so on so if you work for bi d or
a very fortunate person and you're gonna
have a wonderful life watching and
participating you can hardly have a
better employer at least if you like
demanding it cheaper than a day or weeks
hi mr. Munger thank you for taking all
of our questions you mentioned earlier
that when you had an opportunity to
raise prices you didn't want to raise
them during the Great Recession because
it didn't seem right for Charlie Munger
to be raising prices on people that were
losing their houses so I wanted to thank
you for that as well
and I wanted to ask you about those I
wanted to ask you about the causes of
the Great Recession specifically the
credit ratings agencies and your 24
standard causes of human misjudgment I
think they hit them pretty much all the
Pavlovian association denial you're
right about that the financial behavior
and our leading financial institutions
was inexcusably awful and when other
people were regularly in a disreputable
urban fashion everybody piled in that
they didn't want somebody else we making
yes participating the standards and
lending the standards and managing
disgusting intellectually disgusting
morally and of course it caused a
whirlwind that could have taken the
whole civilization down into a great
depression and and that's a pretty major
sin and none of those people has been
punished I it's unusual I agree so
thoroughly well a little forum but I was
wrong they have that big mess and I
haven't nobody punished mr. Munger I've
written a blueprint for a non-profit
credit ratings agency I'm not gonna ask
for your money because I understand
you're invested in booties and you
probably do not want to give money to a
non-profit that's gonna spend some time
possibly criticizing Moody's ratings but
I'd love to get your feedback it's only
ten pages I'll hand it to your people
after the event thank you what is the V
Bagon
the feedback on a blueprint that I've
written for a nonprofit credit ratings
agency it would be a verifier of ratings
issues very things that far out I
usually leave the other people you know
and not because Berkshire Hathaway owns
a big chunk of one of the credit rating
agencies but I can see why the existing
situation would draw you draw your
concern but there's some human problems
I don't want to bother with it and you
have just produced one but you're right
it wasn't perfect
hi mr. Munger my name is William and
ricean down the middle I'm a student at
the University of Southern California
and my question relates the country's
national debt we've just recently passed
twenty two trillion dollars in our debt
to GDP is above 100 percent now at a
time when our GDP may be near a peak and
interest rates may be rising and it
seems to me that politicians seem fine
running the deficit because they won't
be there when the crisis comes and
consumers are happy to take a deficit
because it's better to consume now than
tomorrow my question is do you think is
that there's something we can do about
this and if so what should be done or is
human psychology such that until the
crisis is upon us
it's hard to imagine anything gets done
thanks so much well that's a very
interesting question the whole science
of economics had no idea 15 years ago it
would be possible to print money on the
present scale and get so awash in
internal debt as we have certainly in a
place like Japan which is way more
extreme nobody dreamed that was possible
and the people who did dream it was
possible I met were a few they would not
have predicted 20 years of stasis in
spite of everything the Japanese did was
very extremely there's a lot that's
peculiar and what we're doing and
eventually if you can solve all your
problems by printing money there'll be
some disaster and when it's coming
how bad it will be nobody knows nobody
dreamed 15 years ago we can do as much
as we have now this little bad
consequence and Sophie Churchill used to
say that Clement Attlee had a lot to be
modest about that's the way I feel about
the economics profession they have a lot
to be modest about they thought they
knew a lot that turned out not to be so
not to be so and there was a Greek
philosopher that said no man steps in
the same river twice you know there is
different the second time he comes in
and so is the man and that's the way
where they get a little mix it's not
like physics where the same damn
principles are your whole body you've
the same damn thing at a different time
and you get it ever resolved it's
complicated and of course you're raising
a very important question and of course
nobody really knows the answer who knows
how much of this we can get by with it
my personal bed is that these
democracies will eventually borrow too
much in cause some real troubles I don't
know when hi Charlie I'm Jonathan lo I'm
from Shenzhen China I do have a quick
question basically a lot of people ask
you about how you know how you determine
what investment or deal to do and you
tell people that you can do this really
quickly my question is how do you tell
like for example when you look at a
money manager or a management company
that you're investing if they have the
right character or the right integrity
how long does that take you to do that
and what are some traits that you look
for thank you well no I don't look for
anybody else so I'm the wrong person Wow
what are my chances I'm gonna get
somebody better than Lu yeah so I it's
very easy for me but you need is only Lu
and I don't know how to get you on
hi charlie my name is Julia LaRoche last
year we saw a record amount of share
repurchases and now we're hearing
rhetoric out of Washington DC
specifically legislation to curb stock
buybacks what's your take on stock
buybacks and do you think politicians
should be telling companies what to do
thank you so much well generally
speaking I'm restrained in my enthusiasm
for politicians telling corporations
what they should do but I will say this
when it was a very good idea for
companies to buy back their stock they
didn't do very much and when the stocks
got so high-priced and it's frequently a
bad idea they're doing a lot
welcome to adult life this is the way it
is but it's questionable at the present
levels whether or not it was smart was
that he Lambert's hard to buy back so
much Roebuck no love there was a lot of
that kind of mistake that's been made hi
Charlie my name is Neal Ganta I'm a 20
year old from Kansas and similar to your
mozart anecdote I wanted to ask you what
advice would you have for someone my age
looking to live a long successful life
like yourself well I had that much
success changing any of my children
and I don't think I get to change them
give helpful advice to perfect stranger
it's hard to improve the next generation
and the scattered result is going to be
mediocre and some people are gonna
succeed they're going to be few that's
the way human significance is a lot of
human significance will always go to the
fuel there's no way of creating a few
insignificance to meet the demand and I
think personal disciplines personal
morality good colleagues good ideas all
the simple stuff I'd say if you want to
carry one message from Charlie Munger
it's this if it's trite it's right all
those old work user they all work hi
Charlie in the center in the back you
point out a great deal of human folly
but at least from the perspective of the
listener don't seem to be that upset
about it
has that always been the case and is
that a correct perception I didn't quite
catch that oh you you point out a great
deal of human folly but seem to have a
sense of humor rather than anger or
upsetness about it is that a correct
perception and it has that always yeah
okay stream its my system I've copied it
from the Jews
I saw it worked well from them and it
was my natural inclination anyway and so
no I I i humor is my way of coping hi
Charlie my question is what is your
proudest accomplishment in life and why
I don't have a single I set out to try
and have more uncommon sense than most
pretty limited objective and I'm pleased
I did as well as I did in that game and
if I had to do all over again I think it
would be a lot harder I think part of my
success was being born in the right
place in the right time so I'm not
particularly proud of success that kind
of came from being bored in the right
place at the right time
I'm pleased but not but not proud thank
you for your time mr. salzman I have a
question for you I was wondering if you
could please comment on how journal
technologies implements the invariant
strategy principles things like trust
getting employees to go all-in positive
sum and win-win relationships thank you
very much yeah
how do you solve the problems of God
first of all you have to deal with each
individual because each of each
individual each employees and
independent contractors that we have to
work with each client is different and
so you have to relate to their specific
circumstance you do not handle it
because it's in a checklist or something
a little Charlie hold Peter I'm here on
your left my name is Darren home from
Irvine California this question is for
both of you Charlie once said any year
that you don't destroy one of your best
loaf ideas is probably a wasted year and
I like to ask if you both of you destroy
any of your beloved idea in 2018 and if
so what are they thank you Darren are
you destroyed any idea 18 yes if you
have destroyed any good ideas in 2018
something different in two different
challenge everyday and the good part
about my job it changes every day so I
face something different I am elected
like a newspaper editor I start with the
bank blank page every day well how do I
go to the next situation how do I solve
a particular problem that's my day
that's what I do mr. Munger thank you
for taking the time to answer our
questions in October 2008 a month after
Lehman filed bankruptcy and in the
depths of the abyss mr. Buffett famously
wrote an editorial saying that he was
buying stocks and he was bullish on
America you're famous for bottom taking
Wells Fargo in March of 2009
what made
sidewalls to by Wells Fargo in March of
2009 instead of October of 2008 well I
had the money and later period and and
the stock was cheaper those are two very
important parts of the purchase hi
Charlie my name is Jordan I'm from
Canada in the back I've heard that
you've started some new real estate
developments
what are you developing now and what's
the little B the key to its success I
didn't get that either you hear me Oh
real estate that you you've started some
new real estate developments no I bought
some apartment houses a lot of partner
houses from her book what's the key to
their success then the apartment house
is doing well by the way that phrase
seemed like a good idea at the time came
to me from a man I knew many years ago
and five minutes between trains he
managed to conceive an illegitimate
child by somebody he met in the park our
bar car and my father was asked by the
young man's father he had a nice wife
and three children
what about hell were you thinking about
you know the young man said it seemed
like a good idea
[Applause]
hi charlie
you know charlie I'm standing to your
left
thank you for sharing your anecdotes I
think everybody loves them Herb Kelleher
passed away recently and I'm hoping that
maybe you have some anecdotes about herb
that you would like to share with us
thank you
ooh Herb Kelleher the founder yeah well
he was a very remarkable businessman I
never knew him but he was he was an
original and he created an amazingly
sound company while drinking one hell of
a whiskey and oh yeah a hell of a lot of
cigarettes this is not my personal style
and to do as well as he did was so much
bourbon and so many cigarettes it set a
new record in human life so we should
all remember Herb Kelleher we all wish
we gonna have him so much strength that
we could abuse it so much it's still
still perform it wasn't I didn't get
such a hand I regard him as a miracle
good morning mr. Munger if you didn't
have access to Lilu and to the Chinese
exchanges through him like many
Americans don't would you feel
comfortable investing in the American
depository shares of most Chinese
companies that are comprised of a VI a
structure and offer shareholders few
rights and minimal protections from the
Chinese government I don't know much
about depository chairs I tend to be
suspicious of all investment products
created by professionals and I tend to
go where nothing is being hauled
aggressively or merchandised oppressor
lairs sold aggressively so you're
talking about a world which I don't even
enter so I can't help you
you're talking about a territory I have
boy hey Charlie all the way in the back
this is John Howell with less Altos so
my concern is I've done a lot of
research on that banks and you guys have
done a great job in helping me but I
also saw at large derivative portfolios
of these major use of banks are getting
quite large on the balance sheets SEC
reporting doesn't require much
transparency so I thought do you guys
worry about this kind of stuff I know
you've have in the past and in the banks
that you own and then do you worry about
other banks as well
Thanks well all intelligent investor's
worry about banks because banks present
temptations to their managers to do dumb
things there's so many things you can
easily do in a bank that looks like a
cinch way of reporting more earnings
soon where it's a mistake to do it
long-term considerations being properly
considered as Warren puts it the trouble
with banking is there are more banks
than there are good bankers and and
he's right about that and so I would say
just in banks you have to go in at a
time when you've got a lot going for you
because there'll be a fair amount of
stupidity that creeps into banking hey
Charlie Jason from San Francisco when
you don't have the luxury of picking
your negotiation counterparties how do
you what's your best recommendation for
dealing with somebody who not only won't
negotiate rationally but will also
criticize you for trying to negotiate
wrassle rationally situation I try to
sell buy avoidance if I can solve that
problem I'd have a line around the block
I mean you wouldn't be able to squeeze
in here
everybody who had an insoluble problem
with a difficult person think what we'd
all do to solve that one I'm afraid I
don't have a solution to that one
avoidance is my principal method hello I
know mr. monk on your left
I'm sorry a term from Taiwan thank you
for sharing everything so generously and
you do sound confusions and happy
Valentine's Day I have two questions for
you the first one is both you and mr.
poppy
worked in puppets grandpa's grocery
store a teenage years and do you think
early real world and early working
experience helped you gave you a strong
advantage over other people in this
investing profession could you and a
second I was able to learn from my dead
grandfather great-grandfather when I was
a little boy what I learned at a very
young age and I was just a kid I can see
so the adults around me were nuts and
yet they were very talented I can see
how much your rationality there was and
very talented people and so I got
interested in seeking out the patterns
of understanding why it happened and
learning tricks to cope and so on and I
did that when I was a little kid and of
course it helped me who has not helped
when early started in a promising
activity and what activity could be more
promising in diagnosing stupidity hey
Charlie on your left what level of
discount would you be applying to
potential investments today thank you
they have to accept less than they were
used to getting under different
conditions just as an old man expects
less out of his sex life than he was 20
hello betta manga I want to come back to
the William Thorndike books and I now
have the list of the eight companies it
is General Dynamics work sure Hathaway
The Washington Post
DC I'd capital cities
Teledyne general cinema and Ralston
Purina I know that what's another way
have the long-term investment in
Washington Post and capital cities and
have been invested in companies of john
malone but white berkshire did not have
long-term investment into General
Dynamics Teledyne general cinema or
Rosslyn after one of the events business
contracted nobody else was willing to
sell anything except generals which kept
selling it higher and higher prices and
warren noticed that we had a huge
position in General Dynamics made-up
words we always admired the founder of
Teledyne who is a genius
Henry singleton but we had mired him
from afar we never invested it was just
one of many mistakes of omission hi
Charlie
Cameron Hamidi from San Diego I was
happy to see you at this meeting turn 90
now you're 95 and I hope
well I hope you look to be 120 and I
always thank you for your positive
influence on our lives my question is
related to stress and sleep and
longevity in business there are what I
call criminal competitors you're honest
and ethical but the competitor across
the street is beating you by cheating
and running a massive insurance fraud
business and life can cause a lot of
stress like it did for Whitney Tilson
but you've always seemed to stay cool
like Mohnish Pabrai what mental tools do
you use to defo 'kiss and keep your
equanimity for 95 years how do you
detach and even during the Salomon
Brothers scandal were you always able to
get eight hours of sleep at night well
it's not true as a matter of fact I had
more difficulty sleeping when I was
young but I do have a tip for four I've
learned late in life I never consciously
blanked out my mind when I tried to go
to sleep so I allowed my mind wrestle
through my problems and keep me awake
very very late while I lay in bed
wrestling with problems if I didn't
sleep well one night I figured what the
hell leaves the next night but that was
pretty stupid now I actually
deliberately blank out my mind I can go
to sleep rather easily and I recommend
it to all of you it really worked I
don't know why didn't get to it before
93 hi Charlie thank you for your answers
you gave Robert Cialdini one chair of
Berkshire for writing influence and a
$20,000 check to Atul Gawande for
writing a New Yorker article on health
care apologize for any miss
pronouncements are there any other
writers you gave something to for their
writing or ideas I forgot but there
aren't many you know Gandhi is a very
remarkable physicians person and so is
he
and so I do that kind of weird stuff
occasionally but I don't do it all the
time I'm proud of those two by the way
hi Sharlee in a spa quit from Virginia
if someone can invent a time machine and
you can go back and have been there with
your version self a 41 year old what
piece of advice would you advise your
former self now that you are what 74 75
with all the knowledge that you have now
thank you well I'd avoid that one
mistake of omission that cost me half
over the worth I would now have a been
smarter I think we all we can all go
back and make some decision better and
but it's a nature thing you're gonna
blow one occasionally my general idea is
there's no point in fretting too much
about what you can't fix and and it's a
big mistake you can kill yourself with
resentments and hatreds and and so on
and it's such a simple idea but so many
people ruin their lives unnecessarily
it's like envy is such a stupid thing to
have because you can't possibly have any
fun with that particular sound wouldn't
let it ever had any fun than envy what
good couldn't Envy possibly do for you
and somebody's always going to be doing
better than you are it's really stupid
and so I my system of life is to figure
out what's really still but it never
employed it it doesn't make me popular
president Britain's a lot of trouble hi
Charlie
Alan San Francisco I was just wondering
if your comment on the Berkshire
portfolio I mean we're here on
Valentine's Day listen to a 95 year old
we're thinking about health care and why
is there so little health care in the
Berkshire portfolio and I mean isn't
there something that can comment on that
they're two pretty good reasons for not
investing
hi charlie this is sweetheart from San
Francisco Bay Area there are a lot of
companies in my region which I you know
read they they kind of produce a winner
take it all style of outcome you know do
you have any thoughts on such kind of
business models have you seen it in the
50s and 60s and any thoughts well I
didn't quite get that you do nothing in
India where no no these are companies
which produce a winner
take it all type of outcome yes do you
have thoughts on what what's ideal if
you can find one in advance and predict
it accurately it's perfect winner take
all that's obviously perfect what do you
think I do because everybody's looking
for the same thing I miss among go oh
you talk about identifying your circle
of competence and trying to expand it um
I'm at a point in my life I don't
already know what my circle of
competence is so I would like to know
how you found the ores I didn't catch
that either so you talked about your
circle of competence and you should
stick to it and try to expand it oh yeah
well it's a hugely important thing going
the edge it's hardly a competence if you
don't know the edge of it you know if
you if you have a misapprehension
regarding your own competency that means
you lack confidence that you're gonna
make terrible mistakes so hardly
anything is I think you've got to
constantly measure what you achieve
against what other people who achieve
bunt and you have to keep being
determined really rational avoiding a
lot of self-delusion but after a
lifetime observing it I think the
tendency to be pretty rational about
one's own competency is largely genetic
I think people like Warren and I were
just born this way
now it took a lot of Education but but I
think we were born with the right
temperament to do what we did and I have
no way of taking you back and rebirthing
you hi Charlie yeah in spite of being
partners for so long why is Warren so
much richer than you well you got an
earlier start you probably a little
smarter you worked harder there's not a
lot of reasons why it was Albert
Einstein poorer than I was
[Applause]
we are coming to the end of our a lot of
time I'll take one more question and
then we'll quit we're through hello mr.
bunker I'm Richard Lewis from Culver
City
you've been very positive on the
investment prospects of China and you've
said that most of Americans are missing
out on China what do you think we're
missing and what should we be aware of
when we invest in China thank you well
what you're missing is there's more
opportunities there than there is here
and and and yeah I don't see how I could
guide you any more firmly than that
are you finding things so easy here you
don't need China well that we're through
[Applause]
yeah thank I'm thinking some thank you
all for attending the daily journal
shareholder meeting this year we welcome
you all back for next year
good thank you
yeah we are yes yeah
I have to leave you yes you can have
what you want
you